@c Define common macros used to keep phrasing consistent in the manual.

@ifclear MACROS
@set MACROS

@c Names used to refer to the library, as noun phrases at the start or
@c not at the start of a sentence.
@macro Theglibc
The GNU C Library
@end macro
@macro theglibc
the GNU C Library
@end macro

@c Name used to refer to the library as an adjective.
@macro glibcadj
GNU C Library
@end macro

@c Description applying to all GNU systems; that is, used in
@c describing a property of a system such that no system without that
@c property would be considered a variant of the GNU system.
@macro gnusystems
GNU systems
@end macro

@c Systems that are not GNU systems.
@macro nongnusystems
non-GNU systems
@end macro

@c Description applying to GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems, but not
@c necessarily to other variants of the GNU system.
@macro gnulinuxhurdsystems
GNU/Linux and GNU/Hurd systems
@end macro

@c Descrption applying to GNU/Hurd systems; that is, systems using the
@c GNU Hurd with the GNU C Library.
@macro gnuhurdsystems
GNU/Hurd systems
@end macro

@c Descrption applying to GNU/Linux systems; that is, systems using
@c the Linux kernel with the GNU C Library.
@macro gnulinuxsystems
GNU/Linux systems
@end macro

@c Document a function as thread safe.
@macro mtsafe {comments}
| MT-Safe |
@end macro
@c Document a function as thread unsafe.
@macro mtunsafe {comments}
| MT-Unsafe |
@end macro
@c Document a function as safe for use in asynchronous signal handlers.
@macro assafe {comments}
| AS-Safe |
@end macro
@c Document a function as unsafe for use in asynchronous signal
@c handlers.  This distinguishes unmarked functions, for which this
@c property has not been assessed, from those that have been analyzed.
@macro asunsafe {comments}
@end macro
@c Document a function as safe for use when asynchronous cancellation is
@c enabled.
@macro acsafe {comments}
| AC-Safe |
@end macro
@c Document a function as unsafe for use when asynchronous cancellation
@c is enabled.  This distinguishes unmarked functions, for which this
@c property has not been assessed, from those that have been analyzed.
@macro acunsafe {comments}
@end macro
@c Format the thread and async safety properties of a function.
@macro safety {notes}
\notes\

@end macro

@end ifclear
